PROFESSIONAL PRACTICE & CHARGES OF ARCHITECTS,
BEING THOSE USUALLY AND PROPERLY MADE,
AND ENDORSED BY THE
AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS.


For full Professional Services (including Superintendece,) 5 per cent. upon the cost of the work.

[note] 200 200 [/note]

Partial Service as follows:

For Preliminary Studies, 1 per cent.
For Preliminary Studies, General Drawings and Specifi-cations, 2 1/2 per cent.
For Preliminary Studies, General Drawings, Details and Specifications, 3 1/2 per cent.

For Stores, 3 per cent. upon the cost, divided in the above ratio.

For works that cost less than $5,000, or for Monumental and Decorative work, and Designs for Furniture—a special rate in excess of the above.

For alterations and additions—an additional charge to be made for surveys and measurements.

An additional charge to be made for alterations or additions in contracts or plans, which will be valued in proportion to the addi-tional time and services employed.

Necessary travelling expenses to be paid by the Client.

Time spent by the architect in visiting for professional consulta-tion, and in the accompanying travel, whether by day or night, will be charged for, whether or not any commission, either for office work or superintending work, is given.

The Architect's payments are successively due as his work is completed, in the order of the above classifications.

17

Until an actual estimate is received, the charges are based upon the proposed cost of the works, and the payments are received as instalments of the entire fee, which is based upon the actual cost.

The Architect bases his professional charge upon the entire cost, to the Owner, of the building when completed, including all the fixtures necessary to render it fit for occupation, and is entitled to a fair additional compensation for furniture or other articles de-signed or purchased by the Architect.

If any materials or work used in the construction of the building be already upon the ground, or come into possession of the Owner without expense to him, the value of said material or work is to be added to the sum actually expended upon the building before the Architect's commission is computed.

Drawings, as instruments of service, are the property of the Architect.

[note] 45 [/note]


